aOne of the keys to preventing an allergic reaction is to completely avoid the food that causes your symptoms.
Don't assume. Always read food labels to make sure they don't contain an ingredient you're allergic to. Even if you think you know what's in a food, check the label. Ingredients sometimes change.

Food labels are required to clearly list whether the food products contain any common food allergens. Read food labels carefully to avoid the most common sources of food allergens: milk, eggs, peanuts, tree nuts, fish, shellfish, soy and wheat.

When in doubt, say no thanks. At restaurants and social gatherings, you're always taking a risk that you might eat a food you're allergic to. Many people don't understand the seriousness of an allergic food reaction and may not realize that a tiny amount of a food can cause a severe reaction in some people.

If you have any suspicion at all that a food may contain something you're allergic to, don't eat it.

Involve caregivers. If your child has a food allergy, enlist the help of relatives, babysitters, teachers and other caregivers. Make sure that they understand how important it is for your child to avoid the allergy-causing food and that they know what to do in an emergency.

It's also important to let caregivers know what steps they can take to prevent a reaction in the first place, such as careful hand-washing and cleaning any surfaces that might have come in contact with the allergy-causing food.


There is no known way to prevent food allergies in adults. In babies, breastfeeding in the first six months of life may prevent milk allergy. Early introduction of highly allergenic foods such as peanut protein and eggs into the diet may also have a preventative effect. Please discuss with your healthcare provider.

The primary treatment for food allergies is avoiding the offending allergen altogether.




data source: data source: https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/food-allergy/diagnosis-treatment/drc-20355101)
