antihistamines for mild allergic reactions
emergency medicines called adrenaline auto-injectors, such as an EpiPen, for severe allergic reactions
The only way to avoid an allergic reaction is to avoid the foods that cause symptoms. However, despite your best efforts, you may come into contact with a food that causes a reaction.

For a minor allergic reaction, prescribed antihistamines or those available without a prescription may help reduce symptoms. These drugs can be taken after exposure to an allergy-causing food to help relieve itching or hives. However, antihistamines can't treat a severe allergic reaction.

For a severe allergic reaction, you may need an emergency injection of epinephrine and a trip to the emergency room. Many people with allergies carry an epinephrine autoinjector (Adrenaclick, EpiPen). This device is a combined syringe and concealed needle that injects a single dose of medicine when pressed against your thigh.

If you've been prescribed an epinephrine autoinjector: Be sure you know how to use the autoinjector. Also, make sure the people closest to you know how to give the drug — if they're with you in an anaphylactic emergency, they could save your life.
Carry it with you at all times. It may be a good idea to keep an extra autoinjector in your car or in your desk at work.
Always be sure to replace epinephrine before its expiration date or it may not work properly.

Applies a small amount of different types of allergens (allergy-causing substances) to your skin on your arms or back.
Makes tiny pricks or scratches through the allergens.
Measures your reactions to the allergens after tests have been in place for 15 minutes.

Your healthcare provider may prescribe medicines that reduce your allergic reaction symptoms. These medicines include: Epinephrine (for example, EpiPen® or Auvi-Q), a lifesaving emergency medication that immediately begins reversing symptoms of anaphylaxis.
Antihistamines, medications that reduce itching or congestion.
Corticosteroids to reduce swelling if you have a severe allergic reaction.

Skin-prick tests provide results in about 20 minutes. A liquid containing a tiny amount of the food allergen is placed on the skin of your arm or back. Your skin is pricked with a small, sterile probe, allowing the liquid to seep under the skin. The test, which isn’t painful but can be uncomfortable, is considered positive if a wheal (resembling the bump from a mosquito bite) develops at the site where the suspected allergen was placed. As a control, you’ll also get a skin prick with a liquid that doesn’t contain the allergen; this should not provoke a reaction, allowing comparison between the two test sites.
Blood tests, which are a bit less exact than skin tests, measure the amount of IgE antibody to the specific food(s) being tested. Results are typically available in about a week and are reported as a numerical value

The goal of treatment is to stay away from the food that causes the allergic symptoms. There is no medicine to prevent food allergies, although research is ongoing.

You need to be prepared in case you eat something with the food that causes your allergic reaction. You may need an emergency kit to stop severe reactions. Talk with your healthcare provider about what you should do.

Medicines are available for some symptoms caused by food allergy after the food has been eaten. Discuss available medicines with your healthcare provider.

Antihistamines can help treat minor allergic reactions. More severe reactions may require the administration of epinephrine.




data source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5895478/
